---
layout: essay
type: essay
title:  Ideal Coding Guidelines
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-02-08
labels:
  - Coding Standard
  - Essay
  - ESLint
  - IntelliJ
---

Coding involves the developer to create numerous programs using different types of code languages, such as Java, C++, Javascript, and etc. However, when coding numerous lines of code, we need to keep our code neat. This is where following coding standards can help maintain your program. According to [StandardJS] (https://standardjs.com/), some rules or guidelines for Javascript are:  
<i> “ 2 spaces – for indentation
* Single quotes for strings – except to avoid escaping
* No unused variables – this one catches tons of bugs!
* No semicolons – It's fine. Really!
* Never start a line with (, [, or `
	* This is the only gotcha with omitting semicolons – automatically checked for you!
* Space after keywords if (condition) { ... }”</i>

Following coding standards I believe are important, especially for large projects, where you share code amongst other fellow developed. It’s like writing rules, that help keep the structure and fluidity in their writings. With code that is simple to follow, it is easier to debug. We know that there are various coding styles that vary from person to person, however they should generally follow the same standards to keeping their programs neat. It makes the code easy to read as well as more maintainable. All in all, by making and conserving these coding standards, then I am developing an etiquette and bettering the quality of the code being written, which can help learn the language.

## Experience with IntelliJ and ESLint

During the weekend we were to install an application called IntelliJ and a program called ESLint. So far this week, I’ve found using IntelliJ okay. I’m still trying to adjust to the interface and get comfortable with it, but other than that I haven’t ran into any problems with the application. For ESLint, I’m sure it’s a good program but, installing it onto my computer has been tedious. I had to look up the errors I was receiving and hopefully resolve the error to have smooth installation. So far my experience with using ESLint with IntelliJ, more specifically getting the green checkmark isn’t really useful. I learned that the green checkmark still displays even if your ESLint program isn’t running due to error in installation. 

